do you want to grow on Instagram well
you clicked on this video so yeah that's
probably why you're here well there's
some new fascinating data that's come
out in regards to Instagram here at the
end of 2023 that's really going to
affect the way that you post in order to
grow your following in 2023 and into the
future of 2024 now for the last 9 months
I've been pulling my audience and I've
been hearing from the vast majority of
my followers that their Real views have
gone down depending on the specific poll
it's anywhere from 60 to 90% of
respondents will tell me that their
views have decreased on their reals over
the last few months but now we have
actual data that supports the claim that
Real's views have gone down for pretty
much everyone in fact according to this
new study from metrial in which they
looked at over 300,000 Instagram
accounts and over 1 million reals posted
they found that the average views
received by a real in 2022 was over
20,000 views but now in 2023 the average
amount of views received by a real is
less than 4500 in fact it's over a 75%
decrease in just last one
year if you're like me then the first
question you're going to be asking when
you see these crazy numbers is why did
this happen and I think it would be
silly to say that there's only one clear
reason why this happened there's likely
multiple factors contributing to the
significant decrease in reals views but
in my opinion the most significant
factor contributing to this massive drop
in views is simple supply and demand and
this study for metrial also shows us
that the average account is posting more
Reals in 2023 of course it varies
depending on how many followers your
account has but according to this study
people are posting between 30 and 90%
more reels each month right now in 2023
than they were in 2022 that means that
there's a significant increase in Supply
there is a lot more reals a lot more
competition a lot more posts a lot more
videos being shared a lot more filling
up the feed but let's look at the other
part of the supply demand equation which
is of course demand Demand on Instagram
hasn't necessarily changed if anything
it's slightly decreased from 2022 to
2023 in 2022 the average Instagram user
spent about 12 hours per month on
Instagram and in 2023 they're spending
about 11.7 so it's a slight decrease
that adds up to only a few minutes per
day but a few minutes less per day on
Instagram coupled with 30 to 90% more
reels that you're supposed to consume in
that same time that just means there
isn't enough attention to go around
that's why for the last few months my
mom and I have been saying that we are
in a social media recession we don't
mean to be doomsdayers or to be super
negative but when you look at basic
supply and demand supply has
significantly increased yet demand has
pretty much stayed the same or even
decreased a little bit so in my opinion
that's the biggest reason for the
decrease in Real's views I think the
second most likely reason that Real's
views have decreased is that the bar for
what makes a highquality reel has really
increased often times when I'm talking
about this decrease in views people will
say my content isn't that bad it's the
same as it was a year ago it hasn't
gotten any worse and that's exactly the
problem it's the same as it was a year
ago it hasn't gotten any worse but what
we're not saying is that it has gotten
better because that's really the bottom
line if your content is not constantly
getting better and I know this sucks to
hear but if your content is not
constantly getting better it's going to
be tough to be able to retain the same
viewers I don't care if you're a
director who makes movies I don't care
if you're a Tik Tok star I don't care if
you're making Instagram reals you have
to constantly be creating better and
better content in order to satisfy the
demands of the social media algorithms
and of the general population and
audience and I'm saying this to you as
someone who me myself has to constantly
strive to make better and better content
I'm not saying that this is what I
necessarily wish it was like I'm not
saying that this is you know necessarily
the most fair or like the most enjoyable
outcome or circumstances but what I am
saying is that this is the facts this is
the reality of social media with
billions of people online and with
billions of people posting every single
day the bar is constantly going to be
raising what is entertaining what is
captivating what is valuable to our
audience that is constantly going to
have to be leveled up and so if your
content in 2023 looks pretty much like
what you were posting in 2022 well then
we have a problem because the cream of
the crop the best of the best content in
2023 doesn't look like it looked like in
2022 it looks a lot better it's a lot
more engaging a lot more captivating
it's a lot more interactive and fun and
so for that reason the average person
who is posting just a little bit better
or pretty much the same as they were a
year ago is going to fall behind you're
going to get left out you're not going
to get the views that you feel you
deserve or the views that you were
getting a year ago and now when we talk
about leveling up your reels and
improving the quality of your content
there are thousands quite literally so
many variables that can can come into
play that could improve the quality of
your reels it's not just the actual like
video quality you know are you using a
nice camera do you have a nice
microphone do you have good editing but
there's so many other little factors
things like color psychology things like
the hooks you're using things like your
storytelling things like the call to
action at the end of your video there's
literally so many variables that I could
just list off right now that you could
look at and consider to improve your
Real's views and of course some of these
things will make more significant
difference than others and of course we
teach all those things we talk about all
of these variables and we really break
down what the most important ones are
and how to improve them in the insta
clubhub which by the way free shout out
for myself if you aren't already a
member of the club you can check out
everything that we have to offer every
training we have every live training
that we've done over the last two years
you can check all of that out for just
$7 you get a two-e access for just $7
and then after that you can decide to
stick around if you find it valuable if
after the 2 weeks you're like this isn't
for me then buy on means you're welcome
to cancel and just go back to consuming
the free content here on build your
tribe but if you want the link to that
you can go to insta clubhub.com
slal or you can click the link down in
the show notes below this episode but
let me give you the top three areas that
I would focus on in order to improve the
quality of your reels and these are
three things to focus on if you already
have the basics covered so if you
already have the basics of lighting and
audio and spacing and cropping and text
alignment and text positioning and all
that stuff down then these are the three
a little bit more advanced areas that
you could focus on to really take your
reels to the next level and first and
foremost the area that is arguably the
most important of your entire reel is
the hook those first 3 seconds that
opening phrase the opening word the
sound effect the audio cue the visual
cue whatever is happening at the very
beginning of your video it has to be so
captivating so impactful that's where I
would spend the majority of your time
because that's going to make or break
the entire video I don't care care how
much value you pack into the Reel I
don't care how much storytelling you do
I don't care how much editing you do in
the real I don't care how great second
three through whenever the end of the
video is if second 1 through 2 3 isn't
captivating enough and it isn't hooking
people in then the rest of it's a waste
because the majority of people just
aren't going to watch it it's the same
idea how Mr Beast has famously said that
on YouTube he'll spend up to $10,000 per
thumbnail to split test and try
different options and have the best
possible Poss L designed thumbnail
because no matter how great his videos
are on YouTube if you aren't captivated
and hooked in by that thumbnail then
you're not going to watch the video on
Instagram however people aren't
necessarily seeing your covers or your
thumbnails and so they're not as
relevant but what is relevant and what
is just as important on Instagram is the
hook the very beginning of the video the
start of the real if it is not
captivating if it's not going to grab
people and make them want to watch till
the end then then you need to revisit it
and I'm saying this is how every one of
your reals should be not just every once
in a while but every one of your reals
you need to really focus on and study
hooks study other top creators study
what's working for yourself and what's
working in your industry to figure out
what the best and most effective hooks
possibly can be the second thing that I
would focus on with improving the
quality of your reels is improving view
duration and that's more of an outcome
from your audience but it's something
that you can focus on intent Ally
creating through your video and what
does that mean well view duration is
essentially how long are people watching
your videos what percentage of your
videos are being watched are people only
watching the first 5 seconds or are
people watching the entire video 100% of
the video and so there are multiple ways
to improve view duration some of the
simplest ways are to edit out any
redundancy or any pauses any breaths
that you're taking during the Reel any
uh momentary distractions where you
might be thinking of what you're going
to say next basically you want to
eliminate what's called Dead air or dead
space from your reels that's a good way
to improve view duration and then
another great way to improve view
duration is just to really make sure
that your reels are as short as they can
possibly be don't blabber on I know
sometimes we're long-winded I know
sometimes we're experts on a topic and
we just really want to share all of this
information but it might be better to
leave out some information and to
instead put that in down in the caption
below your reel so that people will
watch the full reel the full duration
100% of it and maybe it will even
continue to play and loop over and over
again while they read your caption and
consume the rest of the value and then
the third thing that I would focus on
maybe the third most important area that
you can really make a big difference in
your reels is in the value that you are
delivering but a key thing that I want
to say here is that value when I'm
talking about social media content isn't
necessarily an educational tip that's
usually what we think of when we hear
value when we hear valuable content we
think oh it's got to be you know a quick
tip it's got to be an educational
Insight something like that but really
value is solving a problem that your
followers know they have that's when
it's valuable to them value is also
captivating their emotions through a
powerful story through a quote through
some sort of analogy through a personal
experience value is also feeling seen or
heard or sharing relatable content so
that your audience can feel seen and
heard so improving the value that you
are delivering is a Surefire way to
improve the quality of your reels if I
were to ask your followers how much
would they pay to see your posts I would
hope that they would say oh gosh I'd
easily pay $20 I'd easily pay 50 bucks
I'd easily pay a hundred bucks just to
see every one of Cheryl's posts if
that's the case your posts are very
valuable but if when I said that just
now you were like what my follow follow
probably wouldn't pay anything to see my
posts I would probably have to pay my
followers to look at my posts well then
your posts are likely not valuable
enough and that is a great way that you
can improve the quality of your reals
but again let's go back to this original
conversation of reals views going down
and this Supply demand imbalance within
the Instagram economy even if you're
significantly improving your reals
you're still fighting an uphill battle
you are still fighting against an area
of Instagram where people are posting a
lot of content and yet their engagement
and their views are continuing to go
down so let's talk about what you can do
instead of posting reels and what you
can do besides just improving the
quality of your reels and you might have
figured this one out already but it's
posting non reals I think one of the
biggest keys for growth as we head into
2024 with your Instagram strategy is
increasing the number of photos and
carousels that you are sharing on
Instagram back in the summer of 2022
Instagram CEO Adam Maz
said that we are going to be quote
balancing out the reach between reals
and non-real he also said quote we went
too far with reals and pushing them out
to our audience and and really just over
prioritizing them within the feed and
that's part of the reason that people
were getting such hyperinflated views on
their Reals in 2022 and it was extra
crazy if you had an even lower following
according to this study by metrical if
you had less than 500 followers in 2022
your average reals views were about
1,200 that's more than double the number
of followers you have and if you had
between 500 and 2,000 followers in 2022
then your average reals views were about
1,600 so you were almost getting 100% of
your following or maybe you even were if
you were on the lower end of that
Spectrum on your reels in 2022 but now
like I said in 2023 the number of views
that you're receiving no matter what
size following you have has
significantly decreased but there are
two kinds of posts on Instagram that
have actually been getting more reach in
2023 than they were on average in 2022
and they are the two kinds of non-real
photos and carousels in fact in 2022 the
average photo or image post received
about
1,850 views and in 2023 it's receiving
over 2,000 views and also I should note
that I'm using the words reach and Views
interchangeably because they're almost
the exact same thing in 2022 the average
carousel post received about 2300 views
and in 2023 it's receiving 2600 views so
that's a 133% increase in just one year
the average Carousel is also receiving
over 15% more interactions which are you
know basically just engagement likes
saves comments shares those sorts of
things in 2023 than it was in 2022 and
again part of the reason for this is
supply and demand the demand on
Instagram is pretty much the same as it
was a year ago but the supply of
carousels and photos has significantly
decreased that means there's a lot less
competition that means there's a lot
less uh other posts other photos and
carousels that people have to fight with
and that your posts have to fight
against in order to get seen on the feed
so like I said moving forward on
Instagram one of the biggest ways to
grow one of the biggest keys to success
is going to be having a healthy mix of
reals and non-real shared to your feed
an Instagram strategy that ignores reals
is not a very healthy or beneficial
strategy and an Instagram strategy that
ignores non-real that it's ignoring
photos and carousels is also not a very
healthy strategy and it's not likely
going to be very effective for you your
brand or your business and here's a very
easy quick recommendation that I'm going
to make for you go back to 2022 and
scroll through some of your reels find
some of your reels that were maybe the
best performing maybe they got the most
views or they got the most interactions
and engagement and then turn those reals
into to non-re how would you do that
well if it was a talking direct to
camera reel let's say you were giving
some sort of like educational tip and
you were speaking directly to the camera
well then you could just transcribe that
video and then use the words that you
said and turn that into a carousel post
let's say one of your top performing
reels was like some sort of funny meme
like it was a quick little video maybe
it was a lip sync a trending audio and
you had some text over the screen and it
blew up and did really well well you
could recreate that in 2023 but you
could post it as a still image meme
maybe the quote is from a movie and so
you're just going to take a screenshot
from that moment in the movie and use
that as your meme as your image post in
2023 with the knowledge that that is
already something that is funny and
relatable to your audience because you
posted it as a real in 2022 maybe you
posted a real that was really short and
it just had kind of like a hook on the
screen and then you told people to read
the caption and your caption had some
tips or a story or some sort of
educational information you could use
that caption and turn that into a
carousel or a photo post or a photo post
that is a text post like it's just got
text on the screen and it's an
infographic but there are so many
different ways that you can reuse and
repurpose the content that you've
already created so don't stress yourself
out with making new photo posts and new
carousels and new ideas instead just
take the reals that you've already
posted in the past that have done well
and repurpose them turn them into
carousels and photo posts for 2023 and
into 2024 also I know I gave a shout out
to the insta clubhub earlier and I did
want to let you know that we do a
monthly live training every single month
in the club all of our club members are
invited to attend that live training and
they're always recorded So I mentioned
earlier that you get access to all of
the past lives and that is true when you
join with the $7 trial for those two
weeks you get access to every single
live training we've done going all the
way back to 2020 you can watch it all if
you wanted binge watch every single
lesson but what I wanted to let you know
right right now is that our next live
training which is taking place in
exactly 2 weeks on October 24th that is
going to be all about the topic that we
were talking about at the end of today's
episode we're going to be talking about
how to grow on Instagram without using
reals we're going to be giving you
actual strategies and actual templates
to use for your carousels and your photo
posts things that have been proven to
work proven to help you grow your
following and reach new people so that
you can continue to have success on
Instagram without just banging your head
against the wall and posting more and
more and more reels and trying to get
better and better and better at your
reels instead let's take the easier path
let's say and post more carousels post
more photos that's what we're going to
be talking about in that live training
so again you can join with that $7 link
down in the description below this video
insta clubhub.com
slal and you'll be able to attend that
live training thank you so much for
watching today and as always happy
networking
[Music]
w